docs/quickstart.md, before:

# Quick Start Guide
This guide shows you how to build a fully functional desktop environment with marswm.

## Assumptions
There are a few assumptions made in these scripts with regards to your system in this guide and in the scripts:
* `marswm`, `marsbar` and `mars-relay` are already installed (see ["Installation"](/installation.html))
* You use either [PulseAudio](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/PulseAudio/) or [pipewire](https://pipewire.org/) with `pactl` installed (probably in the `pulseaudio` package)
* Your distro uses [systemd](https://systemd.io/)

No worries, if one of those does not apply to your setup.
It should be straightforward to adjust the scripts for example for a non-systemd distro, but you have to do so on your own.


## Startup Script
First of all it makes sense to create a startup script in which we can put programs to run when our WM starts.
Create a file called `mars-startup` in your `$PATH`) (e.g. `~/.local/bin/mars-startup`):
```sh
#/bin/sh

# helper function to detect if a program is already running
is_running () {
	pgrep --uid "$UID" "$1" > /dev/null
}

# load default layout (use arandr to set it)
[ -f ~/.screenlayout/default.sh ] && /bin/sh ~/.screenlayout/default.sh;

# programs to automatically start
is_running marsbar || marsbar &
```

We will add further lines to this script later on.


## Status Script
`marsbar` can use scripts to display status information and generate menus.

You can find an example script [`mars-status`](/examples/mars-status.html) in examples section.
Read [Examples/Installing Scripts](examples.html#installing-scripts) for more information on how to install it.

Now you can add the script to your `marsbar` config in `~/.config/marswm/marsbar.yaml`:
```yaml
status_cmd: "mars-status"
action_cmd: "mars-status action"
```


## Wallpaper
This repo also contains a simple script to set your wallpaper: [`wallpaper-daemon`](examples/wallpaper-daemon.md).
It automatically adjusts your wallpaper whenever your screen configuration changes.
Read [Examples/Installing Scripts](examples.html#installing-scripts) for more information on how to install it.


Now we can add it to our autostart script:
```sh
is_running wallpaper-daem || wallpaper-daemon &
```

It will load whatever wallpaper you put in `~/.background-image`.


## Application Menu(s)
Another script provided in `examples/` is [`xdg-xmenu.py`](examples/xdg-xmenu.md).
Read [Examples/Installing Scripts](examples.html#installing-scripts) for more information on how to install it.

Now we can add it to our button bindings.
It is suggested to put it in `~/.config/marswm/buttonbindings_ext.yaml` as this way it does not interfere with other default bindings:
```yaml
- modifiers: []
  button: 3
  targets: [root]
  action: !execute xdg-xmenu -m | xmenu | /bin/sh
```
Make sure to restart the WM for the bindings to take effect.

After installing the script you can generate the icon cache it by running `xdg-xmenu -f`.
Now you should be able to access the menu when right-clicking the desktop.

### Rofi / dmenu
You will probably also want a keyboard-driven option to access your applications.
By default `marswm` comes with keybindings for [`Rofi`](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi) preconfigured.
Make sure to install and customize it to your liking, then you should be able to run it by pressing `MOD + d`.

A lightweight alternative is [dmenu](https://tools.suckless.org/dmenu/), but you will have to add your own keybindings for it to work properly.


## Audio, Media and Brightness Key Bindings
A modern desktop should also provide working key bindings for audio, media and brightness control, so let's add these (`~/.config/marswm/keybindings_ext.yaml`):
```yaml
# Volume Control
- key: XF86AudioRaiseVolume
  action: !execute pactl set-sink-volume @DEFAULT_SINK@ +5% && canberra-gtk-play -i audio-volume-change
- key: XF86AudioLowerVolume
  action: !execute pactl set-sink-volume @DEFAULT_SINK@ -5% && canberra-gtk-play -i audio-volume-change
- key: XF86AudioMute
  action: !execute pactl set-sink-mute @DEFAULT_SINK@ toggle
- key: XF86AudioMicMute
  action: !execute pactl set-source-mute @DEFAULT_SOURCE@ toggle

# Media Control
- key: XF86AudioPlay
  action: !execute playerctl play-pause -p Lollypop,spotify
- key: XF86AudioPause
  action: !execute playerctl play-pause -p Lollypop,spotify
- key: XF86AudioPrev
  action: !execute playerctl previous -p Lollypop,spotify
- key: XF86AudioNext
  action: !execute playerctl next -p Lollypop,spotify

# Brightness Control
- key: XF86MonBrightnessUp
  action: !execute light -A 10
- key: XF86MonBrightnessDown
  action: !execute light -U 10
```

Note that these keybindings depend on `pactl`, `playerctl` and `light`, so make sure to install these.


## Screenshots
Surely you will want to be able to take screenshots, so lets set up a key binding for them.
We will use [`maim`](https://github.com/naelstrof/maim), `tee` and `xclip` so make sure to have them installed.
You will also want to create a directory for your screenshots (e.g. `~/Pictures/Screenshots`).

The key binding (add to `~/.config/marswm/keybindings_ext.yaml`) looks like this:
```yaml
# Screenshots
- modifiers: [ Mod4 ]
  key: Print
  action: !execute maim -s | tee "$HOME/Pictures/Screenshots/$(date '+%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S.png')" | xclip -selection clipboard -t image/png -i
```

Now once you press `Alt + Print` you will be able to select an area to take a screenshot from.
The image will be saved and copied to your clipboard.
You may want to test this once to make sure everything works.


## Touch Gestures
There is an [example config](examples/touchegg.md) for [Touchégg](https://github.com/JoseExposito/touchegg) provided along with this repo.
Copy the file to `~/.config/touchegg/touchegg.conf`.
Then [install and setup](https://github.com/JoseExposito/touchegg#installation) touchegg (it requires a server daemon to run, as well as a client).

You will then be able to cycle through workspaces using three fingers on your touchpad, as well as accessing the window menu (swipe down).


## Additional Suggestions
These are additional programs suggested to complete your desktop setup:
* `nmapplet` - applet for managing your network (e.g. Wifi setup) (only works if your machine uses NetworkManager)
* `blueman` + `blueman-applet` - GUI and applet for managing your Bluetooth connections
* `arandr` - GUI to setup screen configurations

Commit message:

Adding mars-help to quickstart guide

docs/quickstart.md, after:

# Quick Start Guide
This guide shows you how to build a fully functional desktop environment with marswm.

## Assumptions
There are a few assumptions made in these scripts with regards to your system in this guide and in the scripts:
* `marswm`, `marsbar` and `mars-relay` are already installed (see ["Installation"](/installation.html))
* You use either [PulseAudio](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/PulseAudio/) or [pipewire](https://pipewire.org/) with `pactl` installed (probably in the `pulseaudio` package)
* Your distro uses [systemd](https://systemd.io/)

No worries, if one of those does not apply to your setup.
It should be straightforward to adjust the scripts for example for a non-systemd distro, but you have to do so on your own.


## Startup Script
First of all it makes sense to create a startup script in which we can put programs to run when our WM starts.
Create a file called `mars-startup` in your `$PATH`) (e.g. `~/.local/bin/mars-startup`):
```sh
#/bin/sh

# helper function to detect if a program is already running
is_running () {
	pgrep --uid "$UID" "$1" > /dev/null
}

# load default layout (use arandr to set it)
[ -f ~/.screenlayout/default.sh ] && /bin/sh ~/.screenlayout/default.sh;

# programs to automatically start
is_running marsbar || marsbar &
```

We will add further lines to this script later on.


## Status Script
`marsbar` can use scripts to display status information and generate menus.

You can find an example script [`mars-status`](/examples/mars-status.html) in examples section.
Read [Examples/Installing Scripts](examples.html#installing-scripts) for more information on how to install it.

Now you can add the script to your `marsbar` config in `~/.config/marswm/marsbar.yaml`:
```yaml
status_cmd: "mars-status"
action_cmd: "mars-status action"
```


## Wallpaper
This repo also contains a simple script to set your wallpaper: [`wallpaper-daemon`](examples/wallpaper-daemon.md).
It automatically adjusts your wallpaper whenever your screen configuration changes.
Read [Examples/Installing Scripts](examples.html#installing-scripts) for more information on how to install it.


Now we can add it to our autostart script:
```sh
is_running wallpaper-daem || wallpaper-daemon &
```

It will load whatever wallpaper you put in `~/.background-image`.


## Application Menu(s)
Another script provided in `examples/` is [`xdg-xmenu.py`](examples/xdg-xmenu.md).
Read [Examples/Installing Scripts](examples.html#installing-scripts) for more information on how to install it.

Now we can add it to our button bindings.
It is suggested to put it in `~/.config/marswm/buttonbindings_ext.yaml` as this way it does not interfere with other default bindings:
```yaml
- modifiers: []
  button: 3
  targets: [root]
  action: !execute xdg-xmenu -m | xmenu | /bin/sh
```
Make sure to restart the WM for the bindings to take effect.

After installing the script you can generate the icon cache it by running `xdg-xmenu -f`.
Now you should be able to access the menu when right-clicking the desktop.

### Rofi / dmenu
You will probably also want a keyboard-driven option to access your applications.
By default `marswm` comes with keybindings for [`Rofi`](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi) preconfigured.
Make sure to install and customize it to your liking, then you should be able to run it by pressing `MOD + d`.

A lightweight alternative is [dmenu](https://tools.suckless.org/dmenu/), but you will have to add your own keybindings for it to work properly.


## Audio, Media and Brightness Key Bindings
A modern desktop should also provide working key bindings for audio, media and brightness control, so let's add these (`~/.config/marswm/keybindings_ext.yaml`):
```yaml
# Volume Control
- key: XF86AudioRaiseVolume
  action: !execute pactl set-sink-volume @DEFAULT_SINK@ +5% && canberra-gtk-play -i audio-volume-change
- key: XF86AudioLowerVolume
  action: !execute pactl set-sink-volume @DEFAULT_SINK@ -5% && canberra-gtk-play -i audio-volume-change
- key: XF86AudioMute
  action: !execute pactl set-sink-mute @DEFAULT_SINK@ toggle
- key: XF86AudioMicMute
  action: !execute pactl set-source-mute @DEFAULT_SOURCE@ toggle

# Media Control
- key: XF86AudioPlay
  action: !execute playerctl play-pause -p Lollypop,spotify
- key: XF86AudioPause
  action: !execute playerctl play-pause -p Lollypop,spotify
- key: XF86AudioPrev
  action: !execute playerctl previous -p Lollypop,spotify
- key: XF86AudioNext
  action: !execute playerctl next -p Lollypop,spotify

# Brightness Control
- key: XF86MonBrightnessUp
  action: !execute light -A 10
- key: XF86MonBrightnessDown
  action: !execute light -U 10
```

Note that these keybindings depend on `pactl`, `playerctl` and `light`, so make sure to install these.


## Screenshots
Surely you will want to be able to take screenshots, so lets set up a key binding for them.
We will use [`maim`](https://github.com/naelstrof/maim), `tee` and `xclip` so make sure to have them installed.
You will also want to create a directory for your screenshots (e.g. `~/Pictures/Screenshots`).

The key binding (add to `~/.config/marswm/keybindings_ext.yaml`) looks like this:
```yaml
# Screenshots
- modifiers: [ Mod4 ]
  key: Print
  action: !execute maim -s | tee "$HOME/Pictures/Screenshots/$(date '+%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M-%S.png')" | xclip -selection clipboard -t image/png -i
```

Now once you press `Alt + Print` you will be able to select an area to take a screenshot from.
The image will be saved and copied to your clipboard.
You may want to test this once to make sure everything works.


## Touch Gestures
There is an [example config](examples/touchegg.md) for [Touchégg](https://github.com/JoseExposito/touchegg) provided along with this repo.
Copy the file to `~/.config/touchegg/touchegg.conf`.
Then [install and setup](https://github.com/JoseExposito/touchegg#installation) touchegg (it requires a server daemon to run, as well as a client).

You will then be able to cycle through workspaces using three fingers on your touchpad, as well as accessing the window menu (swipe down).


## Help View
It is hard to keep track of what key binding you used for what program and even harder to remember the default keys.
To make this easier you leverage a simple script that displays the keybinding configuration.
The script takes into account whether you have overwritten the original default keybindings.

You can find the script [`mars-help`](/examples/mars-help.html) in examples section.
Read [Examples/Installing Scripts](examples.html#installing-scripts) for more information on how to install it.

Then add the following keybinding to `~/.config/marswm/keybindings_ext.yml` (where you replace `$TERMINAL` with your terminal emulator of choice):
```yaml
- modifiers: [ Mod4, Shift ]
  key: slash
  action: !execute $TERMINAL -e "sleep 0.1; mars-relay fullscreen set; mars-help"
```

Now when you press `Mod4 + Shift + slash` (`Mod4 + question`) on an American keyboard you get a searchable overview of the configured keybindings.
Of course you can change the binding for this to whatever you like.


## Additional Suggestions
These are additional programs suggested to complete your desktop setup:
* `nmapplet` - applet for managing your network (e.g. Wifi setup) (only works if your machine uses NetworkManager)
* `blueman` + `blueman-applet` - GUI and applet for managing your Bluetooth connections
* `arandr` - GUI to setup screen configurations
